# Mix

If you’re familiar with Ruby, Mix is Bundler, RubyGems, and Rake combined.

## New Projects

When we’re ready to create a new Elixir project, Mix makes it easy with the mix new command. This will generate our project’s folder structure and necessary boilerplate.

```bash
$ mix new example

* creating README.md
* creating .formatter.exs
* creating .gitignore
* creating mix.exs
* creating lib
* creating lib/example.ex
* creating test
* creating test/test_helper.exs
* creating test/example_test.exs
```

## Interactive

It may be necessary to use `iex` within the context of our application. Thankfully for us, Mix makes this easy. We can start a new `iex` session.

```bash
$ cd example_app
$ iex -S mix
```

Starting `iex` this way will load your application and dependencies into the current runtime.

## Compilation

Mix is smart and will compile your changes when necessary, but it may still be necessary to explicitly compile your project.

To compile a Mix project we only need to run `mix compile` in our base directory.

> Note: Mix tasks for a project are available only from the project root directory, only global Mix tasks are available otherwise

When we compile a project Mix creates a `_build` directory for our artifacts. If we look inside `_build` we will see our compiled application: `example.app`.

## Managing Dependencies

To add a new dependency we need to first add it to our `mix.exs` in the `deps` section. Our dependency list is comprised of tuples with two required values and one optional: the package name as an atom, the version string, and optional options.

```elixir
def deps do
  [
    {:phoenix, "~> 1.1 or ~> 1.2"},
    {:phoenix_html, "~> 2.3"},
    {:cowboy, "~> 1.0", only: [:dev, :test]},
    {:slime, "~> 0.14"}
  ]
end
```

Once we’ve defined our dependencies there is one final step: fetching them. This is analogous to `bundle install`.

```bash
$ mix deps.get
```

## Environments

Mix supports differing environments. Out of the box mix is configured to have three environments:

- `:dev` — The default environment.
- `:test` — Used by `mix test`.
- `:prod` — Used when we ship our application to production.

The current environment can be accessed using `Mix.env`. The environment can be changed via the `MIX_ENV` environment variable:

```bash
$ MIX_ENV=prod mix compile
```
